for the past two years I have been
working on a problem which has been
motivated by the Deepwater Horizon spill
and in particular we were looking on how
the rotation of the earth affects the
dynamics of an oil my experimental setup
consists of a very large tank which
contains about one ton of water and it
is placed on a rotating turntable we
produce is a saltwater plumes or bubble
plumes and there is a cyclonic
circulation which forms around the plume
in the tank and when the plume hit the
bottom it starts to spread laterally and
once it starts to spread laterally the
rotation inhibits its lateral spreading
so at some point the Blumberg undergoes
a so-called barreling instability one of
the critical point here that we are
arguing is the importance of rotation of
the earth and that is quite big
hypothesis this is effectively a very
small pluma it's like it starts with
that maybe 50 centimeter source at the
top it might be a few hundred meters
maybe at the surface so compared to a
hurricane which fills the rotation of
the earth and which spans hundreds of
kilometers this is extremely small so
the main points that we realized in
experiments and in a numerical summation
is that because the fluid is drawn from
further and further away conservation of
angular momentum forces then the
rotation of the urge to start playing a
role but this happens only after one
rotation period we try also in the
consortium we have a representative from
BP we have people who are in the
remediation so those who are like the
first people to respond when there is a
crisis when there's an emergency and
they want to really use this knowledge
all the information that we are starts
understanding better so that then they
can act appropriately and as effectively
and as fast as possible
you